# Activities you participate in / things you are passionate about

Actual question: _Please, briefly describe any activities you participate in or that you are passionate about in school and outside of school (e.g. hobbies, arts, community causes, activities or clubs, sport). How long have you been doing them?_


# My answer

I have got several passions, and now I am going to share some of these with you.

One of my really big passions is software design and computer programming. I mostly write in the PHP programming language, and most of my real meaningful projects are written in this language as well, like the Diggy's Helper Forum as well as the projects I plan to develop in the future, such as the RealHtmlDocument. I chose to introduce you specificifically to these two projects of mine for a reason. The Diggy's Helper Forum, or dh Forum as I call it internally, is an opensource discussion forum with its main instance running on the [diggyshelper.net](https://diggyshelper.net) website. This website is meant to be a czech&slovak discussion forum with its main topic being the online game Diggy's Adventure. (I have never actually played the game myself, but a friend of mine does, so we commenced the project about four years ago to help the players go through the game. I do all of the hard job of programming and I personally believe it needs just a bit more tuning to become great :-)

What about the RealHtmlDocument? One can say that since it is a future project and nowadays just a concept, there is not too much to talk about it. However, it is a plan to actually help thousands of PHP developers who work with HTML DOMs to feel more natively, as if they were working with a browser. Nowadays' native DOM tools in PHP do not work very well, at least from what I can tell, because they require a valid piece of HTML and also break down under certain circumstances. But, this does not always fit you, because you're not always working with a valid HTML. Thus I decided to write my own DOM HTML parser in PHP according to the Living Standard spec and opensource it for other developers to be able to benefit from it.

I am also fluent in HTML, JavaScript and in most aspects of CSS as well (although lacking the necessary aesthetic thinking). In relation to this I'd like to mention two projects once again: the website of [Zubná Ambulancia Strmý Vŕšok](http://zubnaambulancia.sk), the stomatologic ambulance of my friend's mother, and the PinnacleSeven Odoo ERP frontend. The first website is a pure HTML-CSS-JavaScript static pages website, which has replaced the ten years old and low-performance previous version, built up on the top of Zend Framework for PHP by another programmer before me.

On the other hand, the Odoo OpenERP frontend wasn't just like any other frontend out there. It had two different templating systems, if I remember correctly, one on the frontend side and one the backend side. Now there were also plugins which could completely change the way that certain aspects of the whole system worked, from a simple stylesheet to a robust... whatever the plugin author wanted to achieve. But the downside was that there was a lack of good documentation for the system, and it was pretty hard to somehow figure out how everything worked together. The backend was in Python, so I revised the language a little; frontend templates mostly JavaScript+HTML, CSS then for styling. This was my internship at PinnacleSeven, where I have spent my last three months in India [as an intern](Internship-certificate.P7.png).

During my stay in Tamil Nadu, India, I have obviously become really interested about human languages. In Tamil Nadu, the language Tamil is spoken there, so I tried to learn it; it was hard and I still cannot speak it, but my hard work wasn't for nothing, I have actually learned to read and write in the old Tamil script; which makes my further learning much much easier. Now I start to understand the similarities between Tamil and Slovak in grammatical case usage, verb conjugation and so on.

I also started to learn Esperanto about a year ago, that's when I first discovered [Duolingo](https://duolingo.com), a fantastic website for learning languages. I am a bit skeptic about Esperanto, but I believe it could make for a good offcial language of the European Union, as a second language to every European citizen, creating the ideal of an european identity and making the citizens of the European Union feel more European, which is good as opposed to the world where we all speak English and at that point there's nothing specific about Europeans, nothing unique that _would make them feel Europeans_.

I also digged a little bit into Español, the Spanish language, but that is a short story, most of the rotary exchange students I know speak spanish, and I also love salsa, so I decided to learn some Spanish to understand how they are thinking in Spanish. (Besides that I truly fell in love with the language, so much as with Tamil; I simply love the way it sounds, the way of speaking in the language.)

In the end of my exchange and afterwards, I started to become very interested about exploring linguistics, understanding how human languages work and eventually maybe creating my own constructed language or a constructed language family. This interest had its roots probably in my desire to learn Tamil, as I was struggling to understand the grammar, as well as my aim to derive a language from Esperanto with some differences which would fit my expectations about Esperanto. Anyways, since then I use every opportunity to think about and analyse any interesting sentence or phrase I say in any human language I can speak, so I can actually learn something new from it.

Alright, for now I think it has been enough talking, my other activities are _listed_ below:

* space&space exploration, astrophysics, rocket science
* the science and philosophy behind the life, death&consciousness
* doing the "Convict Conditioning" bodyweight exercises and formerly had also been doing a very interesting sport called the sprint canoeing
