# Why do you want to join the LEAF Academy?

I am interested in joining the LEAF Academy for a few different reasons. At first, it offers a huge improvement to the traditional slovak education system – the concepts of a _public high school_ and a _public grammar school_. These two concepts are the only – at least from my own experience – options for a high school education in Slovakia.
However, they both are kind of edge cases, each on its own side of the road. If considered properly, one can clearly see that in the case of a traditional slovak _high school_, a student is forced to narrow their worldview and specialize in a certain few specific topics, almost leaving everything else out. Whereas, in the case of a traditional slovak _grammar school_, students usually don't learn anything too much useful during the four years of high school, at least nowadays, because the teachers reduce the things we go through claiming the excuse that there's no time to do this or learn that and that we would take that at the seminaries, despite the fact that there seems to be no time to really understand the things at the seminaries either, only learning or revising them for the leaving exams. A student studying at a traditional slovak _grammar school_ waits like a chicory for four or eight years to finally learn something only to learn that he had learnt almost nothing beyond the general affairs.

Here comes the reason being a conclusion of the above: LEAF Academy looks to me like that kind of a school which bridges these two edge cases, residing essentially in the middle, leaving itself balanced. It seems to be the ideal type of education system where a student does not need to _specialize_ in something to _concentrate and focus_  on something through the various extra-curricular activities that, according to its students, the school heavily supports; all while seeking the general curriculum knowledge as well.
The idea of being it also a _boarding high school_ makes it even more powerful, as the students should be able to connect and collaborate more closely with each other.

The ideas stated above are my main reason bundle for being so fond of joining the LEAF Academy and it is mostly also a reason why I love the LEAF Academy so much.
There are some more ideas and reasons of mine beyond the desire to join the LEAF Academy, but I have spread them over the answers to the following questions as they would be contextless in this answer.

My another personal reason for joining the LEAF Academy is, because it offers you freedom in choosing your second language for the graduation. Myself, at my current school, I had no choice of choosing my second and third language. I was forced to learn two languages: my second language for graduation, English, which I have progressively become to love throughout those 10 years for which I have been learning and _using_ it, as it slowly became one of my needs as well (reading documentations and code, etc.), and German, my third language for... well, for nothing. Or better said, for the case I decide to make it my graduation language, which simply cannot happen, because if there's one language in the world that I physically don't like, it is German.

On the open day, I have heard that it is possible to chose any second language at the LEAF Academy if a student _really wants to_ learn it. (Actually, I have heard that it is possible to focus on any extra-curricular activity as long as the student really wants to do it and achieve something in/with it, and I got really very very excited about that.)
So I was really excited about this option as I have also heard that there's already opened a Spanish class, the language which I've been studying myself for a while now, as it is one of my really-want-to-learn languages.
