# Your role in school or in your activities&hobbies

Actual question: _What is your role in school/outside of school activities or hobbies? Have you ever organized or initiated something?_


# My answer

I have organized:

* a year ago I have organized two times the train trips of ours so all of us the exchange students traveled together to the Rotary meetings prior to our exchanges
* right at the beginning of the winter 2016, I initiated and succeeded in gathering together a team of clever, skillful and ambitious people from my own classmates and our school, including our computer science teacher and also getting a lot of support from our supportive classteacher. The matter was that, earlier back in India, I learned about a competition, a massive space competition to be precise, called the [Google Lunar X-Prize](http://lunar.xprize.org/).
Then, after rejoining my school in Slovakia, I recalled this competition after some discussion about space and physics with a friend of mine, and I suggested that we could maybe put together a team of people and win the first prize in the competition. :-) So I and the friend of mine, we made sure that the word was spread around in our class, making us both look crazy in the eyes of our classmates. Nevertheless, we continued our work of planning the lunar exploration mission, designing a rover and a skycrane lander. (I gave the skycrane and the rover their names from the slovak history: the skycrane would have been called 'Orol Tatranský' The Eagle of Tatras and the rover would have been named 'Svätopluk 1', after the ruler of the Great Moravia.)
In a short time, some of our classmates got interested in the idea of landing a rover on the Moon and winning the prize, so they joined us. We all worked together for a considerable amount of time and have gathered considerable amounts of information about space travel and  gained lots of experience with planning such a mission. After a while, we started to progress a little and we needed the private funding as stated on the X-Prize's website as well as some guidance from a more experienced individual than we ourselves were.
So I headed straight to my one of my favorite teachers at our school, the computer science teacher, and talked to him about the project were working on, he obviously got very interested about it and offered me to be our guide and supervisor (because his knowledge about the topic was much much greater than ours, and also because he's always very passionate about any out-of-ordinary students' activities), and what's more, he offered us that he would employ his whole team of computer-science-educated people (for his main job outside the school being a computer programmer) to help us with the project. I didn't ask him for it, but I was happy to accept this extraordinary offer from him as I appreciated it very much.
The general flaw of our great moonshot plan arose about a month afterwards, when we looked more closely at the competition because we wanted to actually sign up for it, and only then we realized it had already been in progress for few years, with a few teams already in the last round. Thus we realized our mistake and felt really embarassed about it, but I still think it was more than worth it, because we have acquired the knowledge we otherwise wouldn't and we also realized our own potentials as well as have discovered that the group of us who joined have the patience and belief to seek higher things.
And the motivation hadn't completely fainted either. At least in me and the friend of mine, with whom we had started this – we now aim to build the first slovak space agency which will actually send spacecrafts to space exploration missions, build rockets and launch them right from Slovakia. We want to give it the name 'Space Centre Záhorská Bystrica'.

* along with my sister Karin, we want to found a school in India with education system similar to that used at the LEAF Academy (according to what has been presented to us on the open day)

